The Joe Rogan experience.
And nobody quite knows, okay, who is it that inherited it?
And there are those people who say, Hey,
this wasn't Ross that ordered these hits. You know, this was like,
nobody knows who's behind the keys at the time anything has happened.
So there are those people who, who completely deny, you know,
his family completely denies the call ability and who knows.
We'll never know that.
Is a problem when you're dealing with corrupt cops too. Right?
Like they literally could have faked him doing that.
We don't know what has he denied that he called hits.
We should explain to people that haven't seen the film, spoiler alert. Uh,
it goes off the rails for Ross, for young Ross. And, uh, one point in time,
one of his,
the guy he's working with gets busted and rats him out.
And then the cops are using that guy's account and communicating with him.
And he orders a hit on that guy and the guy gets to see it. And it's like, holy.
I can't believe this. Who knows how much of that is real and I, how much is not.
But the problem is you're dealing with corrupt cops.
And if the corrupt cops wanted to frame him for something,
that's gonna put him away for a long time,
just running the website and allowing people a, a,
a portal where they can do this and sell things is not quite good
enough.
But if you can get a guy to literally call for murder, not once,
but twice then you've really got him locked up. We don't know though.
Did he deny that he called those.
Death? Well, and not only, not only did he deny it, but, um,
what happened was so, so to back up a step, basically the, the corrupt cop,
you know, in the move, the corrupt cop at a certain point sets out to bust Ross.
And then at a, at a certain point,
he's like kind of getting blocked by his superiors and whatever.
And so he's like, he says, okay, I'm gonna rip this kid off.
Instead if I can't bust him,
I'm gonna steal the money and I'm gonna use it for my own purposes.
But what ends up happening is, and all of that information, by the way, the,
the fake murder of his employee and the photographs that were taken of it,
all that stuff is true. That's all in the real story.
And as we're shooting the movie,
we have access to the actual faked murder photos where like,
what does it look like?
It's looks like it's available online.
Can we see it? Yeah. It's available online. Oh, we.
Need to see that right now. See if you could find the Curtis.
Clark green, uh, murder photos, fake murder photos.
What was his, uh, online name?
Chronic pain <laugh> appropriately.
Enough. Did he look like that guy? The.
Fat guy with the CROs he does. And I, I love that that actor is amazing,
amazing. He was in, um, Eastwood, put him in, um,
Richard jewel and he was in spike. Lee's last movie. Um, he's just,
he's one of those guys. Did you pray jewel? Yeah,
he play Richard jewel and he's fantastic. Really good.
I mean, he seemed like the quintessential internet couch monster, you know.
<Laugh> working with that guy was so fun, you know, because like, again,
we had the, you know,
we had information about the real guy and what happened was when that guy gets
busted, when chronic pain, um, gets busted in this article,
it said he had a Chihuahua and the Chihuahua was going bat barking, crazy.
As the feds are kicking in the door and whatever,
and we're sitting there and I'm thinking like, man, Chihuahua going bat on set.
That's gonna screw up the dialogue. What do we do?
And so I'm talking to Paul and Paul's like,
what if we give him a ferret instead? And I'm like, ferret, let's go ferret.
You know? And then the other,
the other brilliant thing that Paul did was he said, you know, all of this,
like, you know, all this online chatter where it's, you know,
you're typing on the computer and then the other person types back. He's like,
what if the dude's a mumbler? So he is kind of saying this out loud,
the whole time that he's talking. And he starts talking to himself.
So once he had the ferret and made the guy a mumbler,
he had like the keys to the character.
Mm yeah. He nailed it. It was great. Everything down to the Fanny pack.
It was beautiful. The, um, the, the,
so the dialogue between all the dialogue that you show on on screen was
actually a real dialogue. Yeah.
So in the movie you have have Ross calling
for this guy's murder. Did,
did you struggle with that at all?
If Ross says he never did that and he believe did what did,
what was his theory?
Well, I think, okay, so there's a couple of important points.
One is the feds never charged him with the heed murder. They put it, you know,
Ross ended up getting sentenced to two life sentences plus
40 years without the possibility of parole. And this is a crazy fact,
which is considerably, harsher than what El Chapo was sentenced to. Right.
Jesus Christ. And so they really, you know,
they threw book at this guy and buried him and did, did they offer a plea?
He had, he, he did,
he was offered a deal at a certain point and he turned it down. What was a deal?
I think it was 10 years. Jesus Christ, kid. I know. And that, well, and here,
this is a crazy, so this is a crazy story. So starting out with, um, you know,
you had asked me if I had reached out to him.
So I reached out to him when he was locked up in MCC, New York,
awaiting sentencing, and then all the way through, he was hoping to, you know,
he was waiting, the case was working its way through the appeals process. So,
um, and then finally he was hoping that Trump was gonna pardon him.
And there was a big kind of Hulu, okay. Is Trump gonna pardon this?
Pardon him on his last day in office. And he didn't.
And I wo and I was sitting there watching the news, waiting to see if he would,
and I woke up the next day and I was like, man, I'm gonna look,
I'm gonna look it up.
And so I went on to the bureau of prisons website and I typed in Ross's
name and it comes up, you know, Tucson penitentiary. And then it said,
release date, colon life. And it just like,
it hit me, you know, this kid's 36 years old,
he's 10 years younger than I am and just staring down the barrel of that.
And so I sat down, even though the movie's, you know,
coming out or whatever at the time. And I decide, you know, what?
I owe this guy and some fun, like just human being man to man.
So I write him a letter and I said, listen, man, I've,
I've made this movie and this is my portrait of you and my portrait of
your story and of silk road. Um, and it's, you know,
it's coming out into the world,
but if you ever want to tell your version of this story in any form or fashion,
you want to do it as a rolling stone interview.
You wanna do it as a documentary. You want to do it any way you want,
you tell me,
and I will be there in person to sit down with you because I do feel like
there's some kind of, I don't know,
I guess like spiritual contract between me and him,
like when you enter into a story like this, you're,
you're in somebody else's life in a real way.
Yeah. Uh, it, we,
it's almost like we do need to hear his version of it. Right.
And we don't, we just, and,
and especially when you're dealing with lawyers in a court case where it's,
you know, they're withholding some testimony,
if they think it'd be detrimental to his case, or, you know,
once all said and done, I wonder why Trump pardon him?
I don't know. And, and who knows, you know, the way it was reported that, um,
he was closely considering it. Um, but in the kind of last days of the,
you know, chaotic into the administration or whatever it didn't happen.
But I was, I was, you know,
because no matter what you think of Ross's politics or what he
did as a, uh, you know, or silk road,
even there is this thing where like, I'm a believer in second chances, man,
you know, I've screwed up a million things in my lifetime. And, um,
and I feel like somebody like that hopefully has something to give the world,
you know, and isn't thrown away. It's just crazy.
That they were off offering him 10 years.
And instead they gave him two life sentences,
plus 40 years with no possibility of parole. Like why.
You know, there's this.
It's such a disparity. Well.
It's, I think in some way or another, it was like, this changed the drug war,
right. It changed the way the drug game happened.
And it changed the way the drug war was fought. Suddenly. It's like,
it's almost an existential threat to the drug war when it's not by
busts and hand to hand and all the street stuff that we've seen, you know,
since, you know, Nixon unleashes DEA, you know,
in 73 or whatever the year is suddenly,
it's wait a minute all happening online anonymous,
DHL us B PS, people are delivering it.
Nobody even knows that they're carrying it. So it was like,
it was an existential threat to the us government, to the DEA, to the drug war.
And so he got the book thrown at him.
Crazy. So what was the motivation for offering him 10 years as a plea?
You know, I don't know. And, and I want, you know, looking back on it,
it's always kind of hindsight is 2020,
but he had been beating the system for a long time. Right.
He was like one dude with a laptop that unleashed this thing that kind of
metastasized and went over the whole world. And, um,
and he was winning for a while. He was ahead of the feds.
He was ahead of the us attorney's office. He had Chuck Schumer there, you know,
calling for his head.
And yet he continued to kind of game the system and beat him by just being
nimble and being able to throw his laptop in his backpack and roll onto the next
location. So maybe, you know,
maybe he thought he'd be able to continue beating the system. I don't know, God.
It just, I mean, I just he'd be out.
He'd be out. He'd be out now full 10 years later. Well.
And the crazy thing, you know, he treated this two hours ago.
Kind of convenient timing. I put silk road on the tour. Oh, sorry. On the tour.
Now at work, about 10 years ago,
I've been thinking about what was going through the mind of my 26 year old self
back then in 2011 so much has changed if only I could
turn back time. Wow.
So he is got a Twitter account catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for
free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E video is on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.